Handbook: How marketing does email (#6615)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/growth/marketing/newsletter.md

showTitle: true
---

We regularly send three emails. 

> 1. Changelog, a product announcement email sent every month. Sent via Customer.io. (Owner: Joe)

Reviewer: I think you can remove all the owners here as you mention them below in each section anyway

> 2. Product for Engineers, a marketing and content email published every two weeks. Sent via Substack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Product for Engineers](https://newsletter.posthog.com/), a marketing and content email published every two weeks. Sent via Substack.
```

3. PostHog for Startups, an email to users of our startup program. Sent monthly, via Customer.io. (Owner: Joe)

In addition, marketing also owns the onboarding email flow, which is controlled by Customer.io (Owner: Joe). 

### Changelog
**Owner:** Joe

The changelog email is part of [the new release process](/handbook/engineering/release-new-version) and is used for [product announcements](/handbook/growth/marketing/product-announcements).

> Every month, we use Customer.io to share a broadcast which summarizes the highlights from [the weekly changelog](/changelog) over the last month. We use our discretion to choose which updates to highlight, usually showcasing three or four of the most impactful changes. We usually reserve the top spot for pushing users towards adopting beta features. A test is shared

Reviewer: 'A test is shared' - incomplete sentence?

The changelog email always ends by directing users to subscribe to Product for Engineers. 

We tag these emails as `Product updates` in Customer.io, so users can manage their subscriptions. 

> ### [Product for Engineers](https://newsletter.posthog.com/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Product for Engineers
```
I think title links render weird

**Owner:** Andy

> Controlled via Substack, we put together an issue planning content for each installment of the newsletter. The newsletter is long-form copy, usually with a specific point of focus which is of interest to product engineers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sent and managed via [Substack](https://newsletter.posthog.com/), we put together an issue planning content for each installment of the newsletter. One person writes it and Andy edits and publishes it.

The newsletter is long-form, original copy, often based on blog posts we already wrote. It focuses on product and business lessons and information for engineers. 
```

A full description of the flows above is found in [the Onboarding 3.0 issue](https://github.com/PostHog/meta/issues/123). 

We tag all these email flows as `onboarding` in Customer.io and categorize them as `Welcome emails` so that users can easily manage their preferences. 

### Other customer communications
**Owner:** Joe

Any ad-hoc customer communications over email are owned by the marketing team, and are usually sent via Customer.io. These can include product updates, outage alerts, or other PostHog news if needed.

These emails are usually tagged as `Service updates` in Customer.io when they include important account or product information. These emails are given a dedicated unsubscribe option in the footer, making it clear that we do not recommend users unsubscribe to these emails. 

Important service updates are the _only_ type of email we may send to unsubscribed users, and only if we feel it is warranted to do so.

> > `Service updates` emails are usually part of an [engineering incident](/handbook/engineering/incidents.md). If an incident is declared, please ensure the marketing team is aware as soon as possible by posting in the team-marketing Slack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `Service updates` emails are usually part of an [engineering incident](/handbook/engineering/incidents). If an incident is declared, please ensure the marketing team is aware as soon as possible by posting in the [#team-marketing](https://app.slack.com/client/TSS5W8YQZ/C01FHN8DNN6) Slack.
```

> We are currently testing email as a channel for other activities, such as product upsells. We tag these emails as `Actually useful marketing emails` in Customer.io and have found the a personal, non-designed approach works best. 

Reviewer 2: Could this be considered onboarding? Not onboarding into PostHog, but into new products?

Author: It could, but it's just tests for now and they don't run as consistent campaigns.
